How everybody that's gonna make sense later.
This video is made possible by brilliant.
You're gonna learn more about brilliant later in today's video,
but if you'd like to learn more about them right now,
and why wouldn't you go to brilliant at org forward slash biographics?
There is also a link in the description below.
So today we are gonna look at the life of a man who is regarded as one of
history's greatest inventors, Alexander Graham, bell inexorably.
He is linked with the telephone.
Although we will see that he works on everything from wireless technology and
sound recorders to planes, boats, and even a metal attacker.
His career was not with our controversy though.
He had to face almost 600 lawsuits in his lifetime. Also,
was he really the inventor of the telephone or was he just someone who stole
ideas and just sent better lawyers? Father,
was he the champion of deaf people or did his efforts do more harm than good?
Well, neither of these questions can be honestly answered with certainty.
So those might be decisions that you are gonna have to make for yourself after
you've finished watching this video and let's get into it. Shall we?
Alexander Bell was born on March 3rd, 1847 in Edinburgh,
Scotland to Alexander Melville, bell and Eliza Grace Simmons.
He had two older brothers Melville and Edwards,
but unfortunately they both died of tuberculosis.
When bell was a young adult originally, he was simply just named Alexander,
but the young bell, he wanted a middle name, like his two older brothers,
his father relented, and on his love birthday,
he gifted them the middle name of Graham after Alexander Graham.
One of his father's former students and family, friends from a young age,
Alexander Graham bell. He showed great interest in studying speech and fanatics.
This was not super surprising.
Seeing as his father and grandfather were both phoneticians.
His father was a professor who wrote several seminal works on the subject and
developed a phonetic alphabet called visible speech.
There was also a personal motivation for bell as his mother and later his wife
were both death. Allegedly Bell's first invention came at the tender age of 12.
He was playing with a friend whose family owned a flower mill and noticed how
long it took to husk the grain.
He then built a machine which used rotating paddles and nail brushes to speed
along the laborious process.
Another notable episode in the development of young Bell's scientific interest
was when his took him and his brothers to see a talking automaton based on the
mechanical Turk, which had been lost in a fire.
The Turk built a hundred years prior by Hungarian inventor.
Wolfgang V Kein was a sensation in its day purportedly.
It was a mechanical device that could play chess on its own against human
opponents. Notable statesmen, such as Ben Franklin Napoleon,
both keen chess players were bested by the machine.
Although the Turk was an amazing creation, capable of impressive movements.
One thing it could not do was play chess. In that regard,
the Turk was a hoax for inside the machine was room for a human chess master
who actually controlled the automatons, moves
The death of Bell's brothers who came in short order just three years apart
after bell himself, and his father also suffered health scares.
The family decided to leave the big city and moved to a quiet place in Canada
because it had a healthier climate. They settled on Braford Ontario,
where the bell homestead still stands as a natural historic site in museum bell
set up a workshop to continue his studies and to speech and sound,
but also began traveling to Massachusetts and Connecticut to teach his father's
visible speech system, to schools for the deaf.
He worked as a teacher for the next few years for Boston university,
and then in his own private practice. During this time he met 15 year old pupil,
Mabel Hubbard, and fell in love with her.
Her father got a green Hubbard was a wealthy influential man in Massachusetts
who funded some of Bell's research. He and his partner, Thomas Sanders,
who also had a deaf child suited by bell,
wanted to secure patents related you Telegraph technology.
So they financed Bell's work. Perfecting the harmonic Telegraph,
such a system allowed multiple messages to be transmitted simultaneously over a
single Telegraph. Why?
And it was this research that led bell to invent the telephone
On March the 10 and 1376,
Alexander Gray and bell uttered the first words into a telephone.
They were Mr. Watson, come here. I want to see you.
His assistant walked into his office and the two swapped places with bell. Now,
listening to Watson,
read a few passages from a book bell noted that he could definitely hear loud
articulate sounds,
but that they were indistinct and muffled journal added a bit of contention
to the first proceedings. First off,
he noted the famous sentence to be Mr. Watson, come here. I want you not.
I want to see you.
He also claims that these words were not merely a test of the telephone,
but rather a cry for helpers. When he entered Bell's office,
he discovered that the inventor had accidentally spilled battery acid on his
clothes.
This story was later debunked by Watson's own great-granddaughter as a ation
of her forefather that he made our decades.
After the fact three days prior to this bell was awarded patent number
174,000 four hundred and sixty five four improvement telegraphy,
which would become one of the most valuable and most controversial patents in
American history garden.
The green Hubbard set up bell telephone as a joint stock company to look after
their interests and split 5,000 shares of the company between four people, him,
bell, Thomas Watson, and Thomas Sanders on a personal level.
Alexander Graham bell was soon to be a rich man.
As he owned around 1,500 shares at the company. Finally,
Gardner hub consented to him marrying his daughter,
Mabel the death pupil that bell to and fell in love with a few years back on
July, the 11th, 1877,
just a few days after the bell telephone company was founded Mabel and Alexander
or Alec as she called him, tied the knot to show his love and trust bell,
gifted Mabel, all but 10 shares in his company as a wedding present.
So now we arrive at the most contentious and controversial aspect of Bell's
legacy.
Did he really invent the tele or did he steal his idea and make a fortune
of others? And the answer really has to be a resounding.
We're not sure the topic has been fiercely debated for almost 150 years and has
been the subject of books and hundreds of lawsuits.
Everybody has an opinion on it, but it is far from a settled matter.
When it comes to complicated inventions, like the telephone,
they are often the result of the work of multiple people.
Oftentimes credit ends up going to the person who makes the most practical or
best working version rather than the one who originated it.
History also tends to have a shorter attention span and attributes the work of
many to the work of one for the sake of brevity. It is certainly not fair,
but it is what tends to happen apart from be there were other inventors who had
substantial claims to the telephone Italian Antonio MUCI built a device
described as an electromagnetic telephone decades before bell.
He kept on improving its,
but never found the money needed to finance his invention in 1871.
He didn't even have the funding necessary to take out patents for his Teletrac
phone. Was he dubbed it? Instead, he filed a caveat,
an official notice that a patent will be filed at a later date.
It was much cheaper, but also needed to be renewed annually.
Something which he stopped doing in 1874.
He tried to obtain funding from Western union,
but not only did they turn him down,
they later claimed to have lost the proprietary materials that he sent them Muhi
and be went to court.
And at first things seemed to go in the Italian inventor's favor.
The Supreme court agreed to hear the case and fraud charges were filed against
bell. However, mutually died in 1889 and his case died with him.
Italy of course always considered Antonio mutually to be the rightful inventor
of the telephone, but in 2002,
so did the United States house of representatives passed a resolution which
honored MU's work and specified that had he continued to pay the fee for his
caveat.
No patents could have been issued to bell a few days later to show support for
their guy. The Canadian parliament passed a motion,
reaffirming Alexander Graham bell, as the inventor of the telephone.
The story of Elisha gray is much better known to the public.
It was a race to the patent office between him and bell as they created their
versions of the telephones around the same time,
the Scottish inventor beat gray by a few hours and therefore secured his spot in
the history books. While Elijah gray just became a footnote gray,
like bell was working on the harmonic Telegraph with funding from Western union.
He developed a device that could transmit musical tones using vibrating reads in
1870, but did not follow through on it immediately. Over a year later,
he finally drew a diagram of his device and had his lawyer file a caveat out
with a patent office on February the 14th, 1876. Of course,
by then it was too late.
As Bell's lawyer had already submitted his patents to the office.
And of course a legal battle ensued.
There were even accusations that bell stole ideas from gray,
particularly as designed for a liquid transmitter.
The most egregious claim came courtesy of patent examiner, Zenni, FIS Wilber,
who confessed that he was bribed to show Gray's caveat to bell in his lawyer.
Marcellas Bailey,
which he did because he was heavily in debt to Bailey bell obviously denied all
charges of wrongdoing.
And the fact that Wilber was an alcoholic and that given conflicting affidavits
sunk is credibility in the end,
the court sided with bell and subsequently upheld his patterns in hundreds of
other lawsuits. So now just before we continue with today's video,
I do wanna tell you a bit about today's sponsor brilliance, brilliant,
believe that learning math, science, and computer science,
it doesn't have to be dull to that end.
They've put together courses that are all about storytelling,
interactive challenges and solving problems.
It's a really hands on approach that is an excellent way to learn.
And currently, by the way, they've got over 50 interactive courses available.
So look, you're watching a video about an inventor,
so you're already probably the cur type and brilliant can be a great way to take
that curiosity just a step further and understand the world even more.
For example, there's a course on scientific thinking,
allowing you to get a solid foundation in physics while just doing some puzzles,
a great way to learn.
You'll get to understand the physics of mirror reflections and laser tag and who
doesn't love laser tag, and much,
much more so effective learning is all about problem solving and brilliant help
you learn and practice that. It's just a great compliment to videos like this.
And it's all good to learn stuff here,
but you can just take it that step deeper on brilliant.
So if you want to support biographics and get unlimited access to all of
brilliant in depth, maths and science courses,
just head over to brilliant do slash biographics to get 20% off their premium
annual subscription, and let's get back to it.
Another challenger to bell and his telephone was Western union,
which at the time was the largest communications company in the world in what is
widely regarded as one of the business decisions of all time.
Western union turned down the opportunity to buy the patent for the telephone
for any a hundred thousand dollars.
When the technology was in its infancy company,
president William Morton bulked at the idea,
seeing the new device as just a toy,
he considered the telephone in practical and believed that no one would prefer
it over the Telegraph. He was wrong. You knew that. And just two years later,
the company valued the patent at 25 million
Western union,
tried to get into the game and task Thomas Edison to build an improved device
that they could patents. The two companies,
they went to court and Western union lost badly. In the end,
it surrendered all telephone related patents and agreed to pull out of the
business entirely and changed for a few minor concessions.
It was at this time that Thomas Edison provided his own contribution to the
telephone one, which is still around today.
Long after the patents have expired and the technology has become obsolete.
And this was the fact that he popularized the greeting. Hello.
Now the word did exist in the world before,
but it was typically used as an exclamation, for example, hello,
what's going on in here. If we were up to Alexander Gray and bell, even today,
we would be answering our phones by saying
In 1880 bell used his money to establi the V laboratory in Washington,
DC and continue research into sound technologies. In 1887,
he founded and funded the V bureau whose goal was to help deaf people.
It later emerged with a different Def related organization of which bell was
also president.
And today it is known as the Alexander Graham bell association for the death and
heart of hearing or simp the ag bell.
The original building is still around serving as headquarters for the
institution and is listed as a national historic landmark.
Given how much bell revolutionized oral communication.
It was thought a shame that we had no idea what he actually sounded like.
Indeed. It was thought that there were no recordings of him that survived,
but that changed in 2013,
the Smithsonian institu found an old wax and cardboard rack or from the vault
laboratory.
And researchers were able to recover the audio it's over four and a half minutes
of bell reading various numbers and dollar figures fittingly.
It ends with the words
With all the work he did with deaf people.
You would think that bell would be regarded as a hero in the community,
but actually he's quite a controversial figure.
He had some strong views about how the condition should be approached,
which involved keeping deaf people apart from one another and completely
eliminating sign language bell considered the only proper way to teach deaf
people was through oralism communi through the use of speech and lip reading.
He regarded sign language as a foreign language one,
which had no place in the United States.
And he tried to have it removed from schools.
Moreover me wrote a paper called upon the formation of a deaf variety of the
human race,
which warns of an upcoming calamity involving the creation of a deaf race.
He believed that deaf people all should not socialize with each other because
socialization leads to marriage, which leads to children who will also be deaf.
This all fell in line with his advocacy of eugenics.
He believe the practice could be used to improve human breeding.
Although he never went so far as to suggest that the government should impose
any kind of controls on reproduction.
Instead he wanted the elements that promoted death into marriages to be
identified and eliminated.
Just like with the telephone bells work with the death left behind a tainted
factious legacy
On July, the second 1881 United States,
president James Garfield was getting ready to leave Washington DC for his summer
vacation at the Baltimore and Patto Mac railroad station.
He was approached by a disgruntled supporter and office seeker who shot at him
with a bulldog revolver from point blank range while one bullets only grazed
Garfield. The other hit him in the back and got lodged inside his body.
The president died 80 days later after his doctors proved unable to locate and
extract the bullet. Despite some assistance from Alexander Graham bell,
the murderer was Charles.
Jacobo a man who conatively thought he was doing the Republican party a favor by
getting rid of Garfield.
And who also believed that he was being commanded by God modern medical
professionals of diagnosed GTO of likely being a narcissistic schizophrenic
with delusions of Grande. But even in his time,
talk of his mental health was a hot topic among alienists.
They were very keen to examine his brain,
which is still on display in the main hall of the mu museum in Philadelphia,
neurologists,
Edward Charles Spitz testified at GTO's trial and said that he offered from
moral insanity, something. We would likely call sociopathy today.
Coincidentally, the doctor's son,
Anthony Spitzer followed in his father's footsteps.
And 20 years later would perform the autopsy of the next presidential assassin.
Leon sagos who killed William McKinley in 1901 during his life Gito
jumped on many bandwagons. His latest was a Republican fact called the Starwars.
During the 1880 election. He wrote a rambling speech in support of Garfield,
which he was allowed to deliver once in front of a small crowd in New York city,
it was less than nothing, but in Kato's mind,
his speech was crucial to helping Garfield win the election.
Afterwards Gato started roaming the halls of the white house and state
departments, badgering, anyone. He would listen about his deserved ward.
He wanted a diplomatic post Paris or maybe Vienna. Of course,
nobody took him seriously.
And eventually secretary of state James Blaine told him in no uncertain terms to
go away and never bother him again.
This launch GTO on his downward spiral of madness in his mind,
he needed to get rid of Blaine,
which obviously could only have been achieved by killing the president.
His delusion was so great that during his trial Gato believed that he would be
acquitted because the American people would rise up and demand his release when
the didn't happen. And he was convicted,
he was still convinced that new United States, president Chester,
a Arthur would pardon him, going back to Garfield.
His injuries and treatment are still discussed in medical circles today,
almost 140 years later, specifically,
people talk about how the presidents was as much of a victim of medical
incompetence as he was of an assassination attempt.
Perhaps one of these Sans things that Kato said during his trial was that the
doctors killed Garfield.
I just shot him as he was later revealed the mystery bullet lodged itself and
the president's soft tissue nowadays finding it would be trivial.
And the patient would've been on the men and outta the hospital in just a few
days, however, even in his time Garfield,
would've had a more decent shot at survival with the more competent medical
staff,
a lot of the blame rests on the man who self appointed himself as white house
physician. He was Dr. Dr. Willard bliss and yes,
his first name really was Dr. By that time British surgeon,
Joseph Lister was already telling physicians do wash their hands and sterilize
equipment to prevent infections.
But the idea had not yet been accepted across the ponds,
therefore BLIS and over a dozen other doctors routinely stuck their unclean
fingers inside Garfield's wounds,
trying to locate the pu this led to infections and eventually sepsis, moreover,
the president lost almost 80 pounds during his hospitalization due to a diet
prescribed Vilis, which was very non-nutritious and heavy on morphine.
When bill heard that the president was shot and the doctors couldn't find the
bullet, he went to work on a device that could detect hidden metal.
He called it an induction balance device,
and it was based on an earlier invention by French electrical engineer,
Gustav trove bell tested this on civil war veterans who had bullets still lodged
in their bodies and found that his device was only sometimes successful.
Bell's invention had a large battery with a condenser,
a wooden control O which was passed over the patient's body and a telephone
receiver, which he kept to his ear to listen for the sound of metal.
Bel first tried to use his induction balance machine, non Garfield in late July.
He assembled the device on site,
but all he heard coming out of the receiver was a strange sputtering noise.
He failed to locate the bullet, but later concluded that in his haste,
he made mistakes while constructing the device bell returns on August the first
and tried his test again,
but still failed to pinpoint the location of the bullet.
He went back to the drawing board,
but he never got a chance to try the metal detector. Again,
president Garfield died on September the 19th of sepsis,
and emaciation now there's still plenty of discussion regarding the reason why
Bell's device failed.
The most common story in circulation puts the blame on thence from the
president's mattress, which was made of steel wires. However,
in a report bell expressed his belief that the bullet was too deep inside the
body to be picked up by his metal detector. Dr.
Doctor has also been accused of only allowing bell to check the president's
right side, because he was convinced that that was where the bullet was located.
An autopsy though proved him wrong.
The telephone brought bell fame and fortune and working with the deaf was his
true passion,
but he was a scientist of many interests who had dozens of patents in other
areas alongside Charles, some Tainter.
He created an improved version of the fall ground dubbed the grapho phone.
They set up a new business for this invention called the V grapho phone company.
It later merged with another company which evolved into what is today known as
Columbia records, even more impressive.
The two created a primitive version of a wireless telephone.
That bell called a photo phone.
He used it to transmit an audio message detained her over 650 feet away in an
interview. Bell called this his greatest achievement, though.
It wouldn't be until the arrival of fiber optics that such a technology would
become truly useful.
Bell also served as the second president of the national geographic society and
helped turn it into one of the largest nonprofit scientific organizations in the
world. He was an arts as is sometimes stated among the original 33. He found us,
although his father-in-law garden,
a green Hubbard Watts perhaps most surprising involved was his work in
aeronautics.
He founded the aerial experiment association with like-minded individuals,
such as aviators, Glen Curtis, and Thomas Selfridge together.
They designed and built the silver dart,
which in 1909 made the first powered flight in Canada from planes belt,
moved onto boats with engineer Casey Baldwin.
He built a hydro profile boat dubbed the HD four on September the ninth of 1919.
It set the new boat speed record at 61.58 knots.
Both of these flights occurred at the bras or lake in Nova Scotia,
a near Bell's estate, where he spent the last three decades of his life.
As you can see, Bell's career was full of innovation.
Long after the telephone came into being the HD war turned down to be his last
taste of greatness. As bell died a few years later in 1922,
he left behind a legacy that is short,
stir up mixed emotions and ill elicit ding reactions from different people.
And I'm sure you're gonna let me know about those and the comments.
So I really hope you found this video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom below. Don't forget to subscribe.
We got brand new videos four times a week right now. So subscribe,
you'll be informed about those and as always, thank you for watching.
I.